---
layout: post
title:  site.title
date:   2021-05-19 18:08:44 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
## Y	Is the Only Rebellion Left in Your Black Jeans, or Your iPhone?
## By W. Francisco Bowden

CONTENT has become cheap, and attention has become expensive. Advertisers on all fronts are attacking all our senses when we use social media. Every click, every post I read, is a suggestion. I use an app to block Facebook, because even after uninstalling it, I would open it up in my browser to check it.
We have lost the appreciation for sincere discourse. This loss is in no small part due to the technology we use today. Since computers can flood us with information, they can influence our discernment. As Neil Postman would say, “The Medium is the Message.” The technological revolutions of the past like the television, printing press, and invention of the alphabet, eventually all become intrinsic to our language, and therefore intrinsic to our thoughts. The invention of the television is in recent memory, so we know its effects. Television could be a distraction. It alone couldn’t pass on literacy. Learning from watching television isn’t necessarily better than learning from reading, nor could we teach kids how to critically think from giving them cartoons. 
Technology creates a new medium for communication. This new medium, in and of itself, has dramatic effects in how it influences thought. Before the printing press, writing books was expensive. Consequently, hardly anybody could read. Most of the world was an oral culture, with traditions passed on through stories people had to listen to and remember. For all our condescension towards the ancient world, I’m sure they were better listeners. Their brains were wired for it. Personally, I’m a little tone deaf and a little quiet. Maybe it has to do with how much reading and typing I did growing up. Even the language we grow up speaking influences how we think. Mandarin is a tonal language, where the high or low sound of a word’s pronunciation can change a word’s definition. In China, over half of mandarin speakers have perfect pitch. Perfect pitch is when a person can hear a note and identify it from memory. When language can influence thought, surely the medium we use to communicate language is influencing our thoughts.
Technology is changing how we think much faster than the invention of writing or the creation of new languages ever did. When people created written language, it was a gradual process. Technological mediums are evolving faster than transportation right now. We’ve gone backwards with cars. The Tesla uses an electric battery, a rather old school technology for the modern day. The mediums that have evolved in the last 100 years are more transformative of the human imagination. We went from the telegram to the phone to wired internet to wireless internet. Each of these inventions is a medium for communication. In 2020, scientists succeeded in transmitting qubits across 44 kilometers. The next invention could be quantum internet because people need to transmit high volume secure data. 
When I talk about technological media, I mean more than just Facebook and Twitter. I think that the essence of viewing the screen is like viewing any kind of painting with its own ideals. The founder of Instagram once met with Pope Francis to discuss “the power of images in uniting people across borders”. That’s one noble purpose that technology makes possible. Technology media includes more than websites and applications. It is a medium, so it is also the devices that we use to interact with those. Technological media refers to those times that we can see ourselves in our cell phone camera for a split second while browsing an app. It refers to the technology, our behaviors, and our discourse. We can do 20 things in five minutes with a phone very easily, each with their own powers on the mind and senses. 
In an article called, “Is Google Making Us Stupid?” from way back in 2008, it explained what was going on at the time. People who graduated with literature degrees stopped reading books because they could read on the web. More than just reading habits changing; the way people think changed with the medium. Similarly, many writers who had previously written on paper began sounding terse when they started using a typewriter. People’s thought patterns are adapting to what they interact with. Google makes its searchers think a certain way. Google is a simple Q&A system. It gives the searcher quick answers. It has given people more free and accurate information than anytime in all history. The problem with its system, now, is that there have always been entities that wanted to control the available information. Today, most entities seek to control the information available by flooding the internet with fake information, which fake news serves as an example.  
A Biden appointee, Timothy Wu, exemplifies the neurosis behind current attempts to regulate Big Tech. This appointee believes that the best way to protect free speech is by creating more laws to regulate free speech. He is part of a current trend to define correct speech, in guise as an anti-trust policy maker. He argues that the government has never upheld the first amendment in its entirety because seven years after ratifying the bill of rights, the federal government jailed its critics. The US government has not always protected freedom of speech. However, I can’t imagine that any good will come of letting the government repeats its mistakes against people’s civil rights. Radical free speech would at least protect everyone from censorship.
It’s not a coincidence that in a time of rapid change in our speech platforms, that people want to change our traditional speech protections. The massive surveillance of people’s online activity has led to a demise in private identities and opinions. This exposure of privacy has made our innermost questions and online activities into behaviors to be predicted and marketed to. Digital ad agencies have compiled and profiled huge sets of data that they use to target people for advertisements. They are monetizing the external behaviors of the human personality because they have a magnifying glass into a person’s thoughts and imagination. In essence, these advertisement companies continue the manipulative tactics of psychologists specialized in propaganda or influence from the last century. 
In an interview with John C. Havens, we have gone over some of the issues that technology brings to culture. There are a few issues that come to mind. One is the mass censorship that tech companies, which are now the main source of media, are able to employ on dissident opinions. Another issue is that tech companies use machine learning to profile people. In a documentary known as Coded Bias, an MIT student explains some of the misconceptions about AI. Police agencies in London were using AI in public cameras to predict who was likely to commit a crime. The AI models would predict that darker skinned people were more likely to commit crime. The AI would also misidentify women as men up to 30% of the time, too. The entire model was only as accurate as the bias of the programmers that created it.
Another contemporary issue that technology brings to culture is the value of a person’s identity. The internet has to encrypt the messages it sends. One extremely used encryption is known as the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocol. A website that uses HTTPS is using SSL encryption. HTTPS encryption is used on most websites on the internet. In an interview with IEEE, the “Father of SSL,” explains that he thinks the future of web authentication will be a fully digital identity. Computer technology is evolving to meet cybersecurity needs. For example, most iPhones now carry a separate computer processor to contain information on fingerprints, which are understandably sensitive information that cannot get into the hands of hackers. These creators of public key cryptography are now a part of starting a company for identity management called Beyond Identity. Ultimately, all this technology should go towards creating a “full sovereign identity.... It's going to flip the entire Internet and the ad-supported model and Google and Facebook's models on their heads”. The startup, Beyond Identity, aligns with some of J. C. Haven’s predictions. 
J. C. Havens is an advocate of the quantified self movement. The quantified self is an idea that we can record ourselves for self-improvement. Athletes, for instance, can monitor their heart rate to see how much strain exercise is putting on their body. Another way for self-improvement could be using Big Data. There is a massive amount of information on people that websites and apps record. Advertisers use this data to get an idea of what someone’s personality is like. They fit people’s personalities into different categories, just like the Meyers-Briggs test. However, they are mostly putting people into these categories to see what advertisements would be more effective. Advocates of the quantified self movement believe that people could benefit if they had a right to their data. They could use this data to get an idea of what they’re like from other people’s perspectives. This other perspective could help someone understand their biases. Since people generate this data, there’s a strong argument that they deserve to know what it says about them.
Technology is for the rebels of today. Rebels of our parents’ and grandparents’ generation broke down many boundaries. The ‘60s was a culturally destructive time when many American values were lost. Young people can’t rebel through casual sex, casual drugs, or wearing jeans to the bank. The norms that were broken in this period are no longer really held by most people. I would be embarrassed to wear blue jeans to a bank in 1960. Today, people just try not to wear pajamas.
Part of why boundaries are continuing to break down today is technology. Images have become really cheap. Pop culture has proliferated into households. Since it’s really easy to share alternative images of how people live, people have not felt the same pressure to conform to a fashion standard. Instead, standards are sold to us through digital advertising or digital platforms. It’s easier to be far more rebellious on a mass scale because technology is more powerful. A person can share their message to billions of people, even if they’re some kind of iconoclast that annihilates standards.
Identity’s one of the most important usages of technology as a medium. Everyone has an identity. Technology is an important way to define one’s identity. Some people have to define their identity by rebelling. This was especially true in the 1950’s. For kids today, we don’t feel as if we have as authentic of an identity. Our parents’ generation were the real rebels in many senses. I think even the history textbooks are biased towards letting them feel that way. The bias towards the 60’s, Vietnam movies, Rock, are all facts of that their generation won their rebellion. For kids today, we’re captive to what these authentic rebels think they can make us repeat. As Gore Vidal said, “Until the rise of American advertising, it never occurred to anyone anywhere in the world that the teenager was a captive in a hostile world of adults.” Kids these days are victim to American advertising by American rebels of a past generation.